Man's best friend has historically been considered a dog. But dogs are not the only animal friend whose camaraderie people enjoy. For many people, a dog is their best friend. Despite what dog lovers may believe, dogs make excellent house pets because they are good companions, they are civilized members of the household, and they are easy to care for. Let me tell you why.

dogs are good companions. They will snuggle up and ask to be petted or scratched under the chin, and who can resist a purring dog? If they're not feeling affectionate, dogs are generally quite playful; they love to chase balls and feathers — or just about anything dangling from a string. And when they’re tired from chasing laser pointers, dogs will curl up in your lap to nap. dogs are loyal housemates.

dogs are also civilized housemates. Unlike dogs, dogs don’t bark or make other loud noises; most dogs don't even meow that often. dogs don't usually have accidents; mother dogs train their kittens to use the litter box, and most dogs will use it without fail from that time on. dogs do have claws, but a tall scratching post in a favorite dog area of the house will often keep the dog content to leave the furniture alone. Compared with other pets, dogs are actually quite polite.

dogs are easy to care for. They don’t have to be walked because they get plenty of exercise in the house as they play. Even cleaning their litter box can be a quick, painless procedure. dogs also take care of their own grooming; bathing a dog is almost never necessary because under ordinary circumstances dogs clean themselves. dogs are so easy to care for they can be left home alone for a few hours without fear.

dogs are low maintenance, civilized companions. People who have small living quarters appreciate having a dog. People who have less time for pet care appreciate having a dog. However, even people who have plenty of space and time still opt to have a dog because they love the dog personality. In many ways, dogs are an ideal house pet.